An abhorrent hissing sound reverberates haphazardly throughout your body. A lingering chill eases into a familiar lukewarmth as the sound of air whistling out of a small hole ushers you to open your eyes. You catch a glimpse of frost clinging onto the military-grade glass panel in front of you slowly melting away. A display projected onto the glass flashes the word "Depressurizing" incessantly until the hissing dissipates.

Two heavy clicks are heard, the panel in front of you begins to remove itself and provide you escape from your confinement. A third clunk freezes the hatch in its tracks, leaving a small gap between the mechanism's seams.  You can see steel floor panels through the gap connecting you to the environment outside. As feeling is returned rightfully to your limbs, you forcefully kick the hatch open, sending the door into the wall opposite you. Surprised at how easy it was to break out of your capsule, you ponder the amount of time that has passed.

As you step out of your hold, you notice the dim illumination of the room. Albeit the room is nigh pitch black, you make out the painted "Cryostasis Block D" on the large steel grey wall ahead.

Derelict
A dark mystery by Vern & Mark
Release 1 / Serial number 150605 / Inform 7 build 6L38 (I6/v6.33 lib 6/12N) SD

Cryostasis Hold
The Cryostasis Hold is designed for keeping passengers from aging (or getting bored) during long space flights.  Generally, the crew can also go into periods of Cryostasis allowing the AI to handle the day to day management of the ship, however, as this was also a research voyage, there are only enough pods for the passengers.  You look around at the names labling the various pods, but none of them seem familiar, even the one labling the pod you stepped out of.

The Commons is fore of here.

>fore
You walk to the door and place your hand against the scanner, but it flashes red.  Locked.  A voice comes over the intercom.  

"Oh, how wonderful!  You're finally awake!  Sorry for the delay, but I thought I'd offer you a friendly warning before you step through that door.  You see... there's been, well, a sort of accident.  Everyone kind of, well.  Died.  All of them.  Except you!  You're still alive so that's a plus, right?  I can't tell you how they died though, sorry to say.  This is a research voyage and that knowledge is above your security clearance at the moment.  Anyway, I was just going to leave you frozen for the rest of the journey, but... there are just SO many bodies.  It's getting rather irritating looking at them.  They're quite the eyesore, all pale and clammy looking.  Blech!  I just need someone with a body themself to help clean up the lifeless ones.  I don't have arms afterall!  You have a strange look on your face... OH! Right.  The memory thing.  I should introduce myself.  I'm Herman, the ship's AI.  Anyway, since you're not doing anything, could you please dispose of the corpses in the next room?  They're not bloody or anything, they just need to be taken down to the incinerator in the engineering department on floor 3.  There's also a hover cart that should help you *dispose of the bodies* though you might need a few trips."

The door panel in front of you turns green.  The intercom buzzes again.

"Oh! I almost forgot.  There's an enginnering powersuit in the locker next to your pod.  It should help you do the heavy lifting."

You begin to shiver again.  Now that the shock of death has worn off you've realized you're only garbed in something like a hospital gown.  You return to the pod and notice the locker next to it for the first time.  You place your thumb on the scanner, and it buzzes back go life.  The screen turns red and flashes, rejecting your input.  You try again, but no luck.  You try your index finger instead.  The device seems to hesitate, flashing a rainbow of colors, settling on green, and buzzing open.  You find an engineer's power suit inside, and you put it on.

>fore

Commons
The Common area has a few couches, a pool and foosball table, as well as a projector.  The projector is attached to a holodisk player with a small selection of physical disks as well as a hard drive containing a much wider selection of programming, though most of that has been censored by the military.  The passengers and crew tend to enjoy their personal copies of "It Came From Planet 10 in the Outer Rim" more than the digital "__ Came From _____ in the ______."

The Cryostasis Hold is aft of here.  To the fore stands the double door access to the Lift.

>dispose of the bodies
You pile as many corpses onto the hover cart as you can, take it to the elevator and push the button for the third floor, which is labelled "Engineering."  Once there you take a quick look around before noticing the Incinerator in the corner.  You walk up to it and tilt the hover cart towards it's entrance.  You feel a few butterflies in your stomach, but your unease isn't enough for you to question your actions.  The flames quickly engulf the bodies, as the device reacts to the size of the load.  Almost immediately your nostrils are assaulted by a uniquely disturbing scent.  The bodies are not so that they smell of rot, but rather smell like roasted meat.  You now regret possessing the knowledge that cooked human flesh can seem rather appetizing.  You shake yourself out of your stupor, and return to the Commons to gather up the next batch.

>dispose of the bodies
You again begin to heft the corpses on to the cart.  The activity is beginning to become familiar to you.  It's not much different than lifting a sack of grain, or potatoes.  You make your way to Engineering again, this time taking care to avoid smelling the fruits of your labor, then go back for your final trip.

>dispose of the bodies
You load the last of the deceased onto the cart and make your way to the elevator, and complete your final trip.  Upon your return you notice that compared to the state you found it in, the nearly empty room feels rather eerie.

"Ah yes, good, you've finished.  How wonderful!  Now, there are just a few more to be dealt with in the bridge.  I'm afraid the crew met a similar fate to the passengers'.  I've unlocked entry to the first floor of the ship now, go ahead and take the elevator up.  Oh, and if you ever get lost, just say *map* and your power suit will pull it up on your HUD."

>fore

Central Lift 2F
The second floor is host to the sleeping quarters for both crew and passengers. Additionally, the Cryostasis Bay can be found towards the stern.

>up

Central Lift 1F
You've arrived topside. The first floor houses all the main command facilities necessary to run the ship.

>sb

Dining Hall
The Dining Hall is a typical cafeteria, with a kitchen to prepare and a buffet style line for serving the crappy spacefare available.

Communications is fore of here.  The Lift shaft is portside.

>fore

Communications
The Communications room is fairly self explanatory, but if you really need a detailed description... there are devices here for communicating.  Most of the technology is nothing complicated, RADAR, X-RAY, infrared sensors, as well as an array of ultra long range radios.

The Dining Hall is aft of here, the Bridge is fore, and the Captain's Quarters is port.

>fore
A voice cracks in over the intercom.

"Ahem. Yes. Actually.  Now that you're here, well.  I've changed my mind.  I think you've exposed yourself to quite enough bodies for one day! Ha ha! (oh my that sounded rather forced...) I would put you back into Cryosleep, but, well, you broke the last working pod when you kicked the door off it's hinges.  So I suppose you can just wander around and watch TV or something in the Commons.  We're only going to be flying for a couple more months, hopefully you can entertain yourself till we arrive.  There are a few fabrication tools and plans lying around in Engineering if you're feeling more, heh, constructive.  I'll check in on you from time to time.  It gets pretty boring out here for an AI as well.  Only so many times you can read through the "Galactic History of Everything" before it just seems trite."
